
title: "Windows Vista Secrets!"
author: David
date: 2006/09/21

<p>As some of you may know, I recently installed RC1 of Vista on my home PC. For the most part, it has been a great experience. I had some early problems because I took the upgrade path instead of a clean install. That lasted about two nights, because though most of my programs still worked, they didn't behave as expected. My memory usage was sky high, too. After the clean install, it has smooth sailing ever since (except for Windows One Care and my HP 2600 All-in-One Printer...). <br><br>Anyway, that's not what this post is about. This post is about Windows Vista Secrets!<br><br><a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/tims/">Tim Sneath</a>, a technical evangelist for Vista, has begun a series on Windows Vista Secrets and they're great tips! I must say, my favorite tips are the built-in <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/tims/archive/2006/09/18/761092.aspx">Open Command Window Here</a>, <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/tims/archive/2006/09/18/761096.aspx">Copy as Path</a>, and <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/tims/archive/2006/09/20/763946.aspx">Running Quick Launch Items</a>. The first two were available before using shell extensions, but having them built in is great. I do wonder if there is a secret to have them always show up as opposed to having to Shift + Right Click, though. That would be a nice feature. Maybe if it is a config setting somewhere, like the UAC stuff is. Another nice feature would be the ability to open PowerShell instead of the standard Command Window.<br><br>Anyway, thanks for the great tips Tim! Keep them coming!</p><hints id="hah_hints"></hints>
