
title: "Previous jobs can come back to haunt you in strange ways"
author: David
date: 2007/09/05

<p>When I was in high school, my first job was preparing food at a local Taco Mayo. I didn't last long there. Soon afterwards, I began working at a local ISP doing tech support. I still remember all of the problems that brand new 56K modems had, because the v92 standard hadn't really been standardized yet.</p> <p>Anyway, all that to say my first <em>real</em> job was tech support at an ISP. Tonight, I was practicing my troubleshooting skills on my internet connection. I got home from work and couldn't connect to anything except my router.</p> <p>Here are the steps I took:</p> <p>1) Opened Outlook and IE and tried to go somewhere. Nothing happened.</p> <p>2) Recognized there was a problem.</p> <p>3) Pulled up a command prompt and tried to ping <a href="http://www.google.com">www.google.com</a> and then my ISPs website. No dice.</p> <p>4) I rebooted.</p> <p>5) I pulled up an admin command prompt (UAC) and tried pinging again with no success.</p> <p>6) I released my IP address and then renewed it (ipconfig /release and then ipconfig /renew - this is why I needed an elevated prompt).</p> <p>7) I tried pinging again without success.</p> <p>8) I unplugged my cable modem, waited for 15 seconds, plugged it back up and then tried again... without success.</p> <p>9) I navigated to my router's page in my browser which came up great.</p> <p>10) I released and renewed my IP address from the router. Then I tried pinging... once again without success.</p> <p>11) I bypassed my router and connected my ethernet cable directly to my cable modem.</p> <p>12) I unplugged and then plugged back in my cable modem and tried pinging without success.</p> <p>13) I got frustrated and tried <em>most</em> of the above things in random order to try to get it to work.</p> <p>14) I called tech support.</p> <p>15) I got more frustrated dealing with the automated answering system.</p> <p>16) I got <em>FAR </em>more frustrated dealing with the automated tech support - that had me do everything I had already tried.</p> <p>17) The automated tech support finally asked if I'd like to speak with a real person - I said yes.</p> <p>18) The real tech support picked up quickly (thankfully) and had me power off my modem and bypass my router (already done) and then try pinging which didn't work.</p> <p>19) Then he asked me to reboot.</p> <p>20) Knowing that this was my second reboot, I was skeptical but I went ahead with it for the real tech support guy's benefit.</p> <p>...</p> <p>21) It starts working.</p> <p>22) I look and feel like an idiot.</p> <p>Moral of the story - rebooting always fixes the problem. Just try it over and over and over again. Until it starts working.</p> <p>*sigh*</p>
