
title: "Am I a CTP junkie or a Beta junkie?"
author: David
date: 2007/11/01

<p>I'm finding myself wondering if I'm a beta junkie or a CTP junkie.</p> <p>Why?</p> <p>Because Jeffrey Snover announced that there will be a <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/powershell/archive/2007/11/02/ctp-ctp-beta.aspx">CTP release of PowerShell 2.0 next week</a>. I'm not waiting for the beta either - I'm downloading the CTP bits as soon as the post announcing its release gets to Google Reader. Maybe I should change my "beta junkie" title to "pre-release junkie" or "I just like to install things junkie."<strong>*</strong></p> <p>PowerShell 1.0 single handedly turned me into a console user. I do 90+% of my file operations from PowerShell instead of Windows Explorer. I also do a large portion of my pseudo coding at the command prompt to see whether a basic algorithm will work the way I expect it to. I'm very excited to see what the team has come up with.</p> <p><strong>Update</strong> (per post from Jeffrey Snover):</p> <blockquote> <p>The PowerShell V2 CTP is not for everyone. You should read this PowerShell Team blog entry ( <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/powershell/archive/2007/11/02/ctp-watch-this-space.aspx">http://blogs.msdn.com/powershell/archive/2007/11/02/ctp-watch-this-space.aspx</a> ) to find out what it is and what it isn't and then make an informed decision before installing the CTP.</p></blockquote> <p>I may be an "I just like to install things junkie" but that doesn't mean that you should be to. Be responsible with pre-release software. If you've got production code that relies on PowerShell behavior, etc. you should&nbsp;consider holding off on installing it on your development machine.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p><em><strong>*</strong> With all these installs I do, I actually do see UAC prompts a lot. And no, I haven't turned off the prompt.</em></p>
