
title: "Reminder: Check your cables before buying more cables..."
author: David
date: 2007/03/08

<p>I'm sure I'm the only one that has ever messed up like this, but anyway...</p> <p>My TV is one of the 30" HDTV monitors. It was cheaper at the time and the box didn't mention anything about it not being a true "HD" TV. In other words, it doesn't support HD without a tuner. Regardless, though, it was cheap and it has a great picture. </p> <p>Unfortunately, it doesn't have HDMI input, so when I upgraded from the old HD package from Dish Network to their HD/DVR service, the upgraded receiver I got only had component output and HDMI output. </p> <p>Big deal, right? Surely I can deal with component.</p> <p>Except that my Xbox 360 takes up one of my component inputs and my Wii SHOULD take up the other component input. I'm out of component inputs.</p> <p>I did what any other self-respecting geek would do and headed over to <a href="http://www.monoprice.com">monoprice.com</a>, which is by far the best place to get cables or adapters... period. I ordered an HDMI to DVI converter a few days after ordering my Wii component cables. The Wii cables came first, so my 360 was unhooked for a few days while I could enjoy some 480p Wii goodness (it does look better than the 480i with the prepackaged&nbsp;composite cables&nbsp;by the way).</p> <p>Today, my HDMI to DVI converter came.</p> <p>And I goofed up.</p> <p>I ordered the DVI (male) to HDMI (female) converter.</p> <p>Not the DVI (female) to HDMI (male) converter.</p> <p>The plugs don't work that way.</p> <p>*sigh*</p> <p>What's even better is I didn't realize this until I had already pulled the TV out, unhooked the satellite receiver from the component and rehooked the 360 component back in.</p> <p>Moral of the story: double check your cables before you buy new cables.</p>
