
title: "I&rsquo;m thankful that my computer will type &lsquo;2009&rsquo; for me"
author: David
date: 2009/01/01
categories: general
guid: 58b84948-4d3c-4e9e-bd3f-4a424165ac14

So, a year ago to the day, I posted [my review of 2007 with a look towards
2008](/blog/2008/01/01/welcome-2008-2007-in-review/). To continue that age old
tradition, I will now review 2008. 

## Learning

I started off the month by stating that [I wanted to learn some new languages,
primarily Python and
Ruby](/blog/2008/01/30/learning-technologies-outside-and-inside-of-the-microsoft-ecosystem/).
I'm sad to say that I haven't made it past the 5th python challenge yet. I
pretty much got distracted, which is a lame excuse. On the other hand, instead
of learning languages, I've learned a ton about editing in VIM and even a
little about Emacs (though I have to use viper or vimpulse to be at all
productive in Emacs). I'm even using ViEmu in Visual Studio. The Vim
key-bindings have become muscle memory now and I consider that a positive
thing. I'm still going to try to learn other languages this year, but I'm going
to need a project to work on before I can become proficient. 

## FSDNUG

This year, a very exciting thing for me was the formation of
[FSDNUG](http://www.fsdnug.org). [Michael Paladino](http://www.mpaladino.com/)
pretty much did all of the work, but he lets me call myself a co-leader.
[Raymond Lewallen opened up the FSDNUG meetings by speaking about Behavior
Driven
Development](/blog/2008/03/04/fsdnug-meeting-with-raymond-lewallen-on-behavior-driven-design/).
I didn't really grok BDD at that point, but I'm learning. I most definitely
prefer the context/specification style of naming specs over traditional TDD
test names. 

## Conferences

I was fortunate enough to attend both [Tech
Ed](/blog/2008/07/02/tech-ed-andndash-day-1-review/) and
[DevLink](/blog/2008/08/27/devlink-2008-recap/) this year. I even told people
at DevLink that I'd be attending [CodeMash](http://codemash.org/), but I sadly
won't be able to make it after all. I have no doubts that it will be an amazing
conference, though, and wish I could be there. 

## Presentations

I presented on PowerShell three times in 2008. [Once to
FSDNUG](/blog/2008/09/09/powershell-fsdnug-presentation-with-slides-and-notes/),
[once to MNUG](/blog/2008/09/30/slides-and-notes-from-mnug-talk/) and then once
to Harding University CS students. My presentations pretty much took up [all of
September](/blog/month?2008-09). It was a great experience and I'm looking
forward to speaking to the Shreveport .NET User Group in March! 

## Posts

My post on ["real world debugging witn WinDbg"
post](/blog/2008/05/23/real-world-walkthrough-with-windbg/) was featured on the
[Tech Ed bloggers
site](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/events/teched/cc531163.aspx), which led
to me being selected as a "featured Tech Ed blogger" for a day. I was also
excited to have my [PowerShell thumbnail
script](/blog/2008/10/11/simple-powershell-script-to-generate-thumbnails/)
[mentioned on the PowerScripting
Podcast](http://feeds.feedburner.com/~r/Powerscripting/~3/455545211/index.php). 

## In closing...

All in all, a really great year. I noted in 2007, that it had been the year of
the most growth for me as a developer. That was true... at least until 2008. My
opinion right now is that there is no such thing as a good developer, only a
better developer. This saying comes from a discussion I had with a coworker a
few months back where we came to the conclusion that there isn't such a thing
as a good design or architecture, only a better design or architecture - all
because we'll inevitably have learned a better way to do things in the future. 

I hope everyone has a great 2009!

