---
title: 2011 in Review
date: 2012/01/08

Now that the year of the Mayans is upon us, I wanted to take some time to look
back over 2011. And don't worry, I'll do my best to not mention the Mayans and
2012 anymore this year. I won't guarantee it won't come up again because I
think it is funny, but I'll try.

## A new job… sort of

Back in June of 2010, I made a major decision and moved my family to Memphis
and took a new job. Little did I know that my employer would change in just
over a year. My prior employer, [ServiceU](http://www.serviceu.com), was
[acquired by the Active Network](http://www.serviceu.com/acquisition). I'm
still at the same location doing mostly the same thing, but it was still
unexpected. I'm excited about the change, though, and I'm excited that I'm
still working for a software company.

As a part of the acquisition, we've also fully embraced
[Scrum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(development\)) as our development
methodology. Prior to the acquisition, it wasn't like we were doing Waterfall,
but we didn't really have a formalized process either. You might be able to
call it Lean, but that would probably be stretching it as far as [Lean Software
Development](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_software_development) is
concerned. I've been reading about Scrum and Agile development for years now,
but I discovered that "reading" is far different than "doing." I thought I
understood Agile - I was wrong. There is a big difference between talking about
iterative releases and *actually releasing iteratively*. You'll understand if
you've ever been there.

Another interesting thing that happened this past year was I experienced my
first trip to Redmond and the Microsoft Campus. It's big. And this bad Seattle
weather everyone talks about? Lies - it was sunny and in the 70s the entire
time we were there. One of the results of the trip was that [our company was
featured in a Microsoft Case Study about SQL Server
2012](http://www.microsoft.com/casestudies/Case_Study_Detail.aspx?CaseStudyID=4000011506).
Over the last year, I've learned far more about uptime and availability than I
ever thought I would. It's been quite the learning experience to actually get
to help build systems (and maintain them effectively) while keeping the uptime
numbers we're looking for.

From a speaking and community perspective, I barely did anything… publicly.
However, we really started a push to have Dev Lunches at work as a means of
continual improvement. Basically, once a month, one of the devs would volunteer
to present a topic to the team over lunch. The atmosphere is great for
presenting because everyone is peers and friends already, and you're pretty
much guaranteed to have in-depth discussions. I'd really recommend something
similar as a training opportunity. And it also fits into the self-organizing
side of agile.

## On the home front

Earlier last year, [my family increased from two to three with the addition of
my daughter Daila](http://mohundro.com/blog/2011/06/24/introducing-daila-joy/).
Needless to say, I've been getting my hands dirty. Literally. She's gone from
sleeping most of the time (except at night) to babbling, rolling over, standing
with help, laughing at just about everything, and more. She's not responding to
baby signs just yet, but I'm pretty sure she understands what we're saying now.

## This year?

I expect that we'll have our first iOS application released soon. Chances are
good that it won't mean much to you if you're not familiar with our service,
but it is still exciting for us.

I also recently cancelled my cable _finally_ and am fully embracing streaming.
It probably isn't even worth mentioning that part, but it's a big deal to me.
I'm giddy over how much I'll be saving a month.

Other than that, well, who knows. Stay tuned.

