title: Applied PowerShell Presentation
date: 2013/04/26

I've begun presenting again with some frequency. My topic of choice,
unsurprisingly, is PowerShell. I had presented on PowerShell quite a bit back
in 2009, but since then I had taken a break. Now that everyone in the area has
had sufficient time to forget my earlier presentations, I can just recycle my
earlier talks and give them again!

Seriously, though, my earlier talks about PowerShell weren't particularly
practical. Instead of showing you *how* you could use PowerShell, I mostly
showed how cool I thought it was. Unfortunately, I didn't have a lot that I
could show from work that *proved* it as a successful technology.

Today, however, we're using PowerShell in production with a great deal of
success. We're using it to build our codebase (with
[Psake](https://github.com/psake/psake)), our deployment script is written in
PowerShell, we provision our web servers with PowerShell (via
[Chef](http://www.opscode.com/chef/)), etc. I have a great deal of things that
I can now point to where our usage of PowerShell has greatly helped my team.

In short, our experiences are proving that PowerShell is most definitely a
technology that can be used with great success. We're using it to more fully
adopt [continuous delivery](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_delivery).

In light of all of this, my latest presentation on PowerShell is entitled
"Applied PowerShell." Just last night, I spoke at the [Northeast Arkansas
DNUG](http://neadnug.com).  In a few weeks, I'll be presenting it at the [Fort
Smith DNUG](http://fsdnug.org) and then later at the [Northwest Arkansas
DNUG](http://nwadnug.org).  The best part of the talk is actually getting to
show our usage in production.  Real world usage trumps demos *any* day!

If you're interested in checking out my slides, I've got them up on
[GitHub](http://drmohundro.github.io/presentations/applied-powershell/).
